To the Buddhas: Vipaśyin, Śikhin, Viśvabhū,
Krakucchanda, Kanakamuni, and Kāśyapa,
And Śākyamuni—Gautama, deity of all deities,
I pay homage to these seven warrior-like Buddhas!

For the sake of beings, in times long past,
I endured all manner of hardships,
And relinquished my own happiness;
Through this, may the teachings long blaze forth!

In bygone days, for the ill and infirm,
I gave up my very life-force;
To shelter the destitute and the weak,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

Sons and daughters, spouses too,
Wealth, elephants, and chariots,
All given up for enlightenment's jewel;
May the teachings long blaze forth!

Through offerings made to Buddhas, pratyekabuddhas,
To śrāvakas, both male and female,
And to the great sages as well,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

Through myriad sufferings I bore
Over countless millions of aeons,
Seeking wisdom for awakening's sake,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

Through my adherence to moral discipline,
And long-practiced asceticism,
My offerings to Buddhas of all directions,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

In the past, with unwavering diligence,
Ever steadfast, overcoming opposition,
To liberate all sentient beings,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

Constantly cultivating patience,
Tolerating beings' harmful acts,
Born of their emotional afflictions,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

Through meditative states, perfect freedoms, formless absorptions,
And samādhis as numerous as Ganges' sands,
By the power of my meditation,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

For the sake of wisdom in times past,
Practicing austerities in forests,
And teaching countless śāstras to others,
May the teachings long blaze forth!

Out of love, I gave my flesh and blood,
Surrendered my entire livelihood,
Offered limbs and every body part;
May the way of the Dharma flourish and expand!

In the past, with loving-kindness, I led
Misguided beings to full maturity,
Guiding them to the three vehicles;
May the gift of Dharma thrive and grow!

In days gone by, with skillful means and wisdom,
I freed beings from perverse views,
Led them to the correct view;
May the Dharma increase in every way!

With the four means of attracting disciples,
I rescued beings from the fire of the emotions,
Vanquished rampant negativity;
May my followers long endure!

I freed tīrthikas and others
From the rivers of different views,
Guiding them to the correct view;
May my followers always have devotion!
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!